# Assignment1GDPM
## Assignment-1
## Author: Tejaswini Repala
## Course: Genomic Data Analysis and Precision Medicine
## Date: 10-20-2024

## Objective
The goal of this assignment is to assemble the Escherichia coli genome using short-read DNA sequencing data (SRA identifier: SRR21904868) and compare the results of two de-novo genome assembly tools: Velvet and Oases. Various k-mer sizes are tested to identify the optimal parameters for genome assembly. The performance and results of Velvet and Oases are compared to assess if one tool provides a clear advantage over the other.

## Dependencies
The following tools should be installed in the conda environment:
sra-toolkit  
fastqc  
velvet  
oases  
quast

## Steps for Execution
### Download sequencing data:
Use the SRA toolkit to download the sequencing data for SRR21904868:

```
prefetch SRR21904868  
```
Convert SRA to FASTQ:
Convert the .sra file to paired-end .fastq files:

```
fastq-dump --split-files SRR21904868.sra
```  
Quality control with FastQC:
Run FastQC on both FASTQ files:

```
fastqc SRR21904868_1.fastq -o Fastqc_results/  
fastqc SRR21904868_2.fastq -o Fastqc_results/
``` 
Run genome assembly and analysis scripts:
Execute the provided job scripts to perform genome assembly using Velvet and Oases and assess the assembly quality with QUAST. The scripts handle the assembly and analysis of different k-mer sizes.

Velvet assembly:
Execute velvet_job.sh to run Velvet with different k-mer sizes (e.g., k45, k55, k65, k75, k85).

Oases assembly:
Execute oases_.sh to run Oases for the same k-mer sizes and produce transcript assemblies.

QUAST analysis for Velvet:
Execute quast_velvet.sh to evaluate the quality of the Velvet assemblies using QUAST.

QUAST analysis for Oases:
Execute quast_oases.sh to assess the Oases assemblies.

## Outputs
The output generated by each script is summarized, along with a comprehensive assembly and workflow report, which is available in the assignment folder.
